# SeCon
SeCon is a nucleic acid sequence files batch converter. Able to convert both single files and batches of diverse sequence files.

## Supported formats
- FASTA
- GenBank
- EMBL

## Requirements
Python 3.12.2

# Usage
```bash
secon.py [-h] [-o OUTPUT] [-e EXCLUDE] [-v] input format
```

Positional arguments:  
  `input` path to input file/folder  
  `format` fasta/embl/gb  

Options:  
  `-h, --help` show this help message and exit  
  `-o OUTPUT --output OUTPUT` path to output folder  
  `-e EXCLUDE, --exclude EXCLUDE` pattern to be excluded from conversion (only for folders)  
  `-v, --verbose` print all logs  


The command-line interface was designed to be flexible and intuitive. The input folder may contain files of various formats. The output folder and file names are automatically generated unless specified with `-o`. Extension may be given with or without a dot. Files to be excluded `-e` from batch convertersion may be specified with the Unix shell-style pattern.

# Examples
```bash
# single file 
secon.py ./input/gb/sequence.gb embl -o my_output -v

# batch
secon.py ./input/embl gb -o my_output -e *.1* -v 
```

## Architecture
SeCon's architecture ensures seamless integration of new converters. The core functionality is centered around a base converter that manages I/O operations, supporting both file-based and web-based inputs. Each converter script consists of two classes, each implementing a unidirectional conversion method. Both classes include a `convert()` function. These classes are organized in a list generated by `get_converters()`, facilitating easy access via the registry. SeCon supports both single file and batch conversions, accompanied by detailed logging of operations and errors.
